Topic: Cultural Influences on Nursing Care: Diabetes among Native American middle-aged males (defined by erikson exploring  the health disparities they face)

Please take care to follow the requirements of the rubric below. you may want to phase your approach to ensure all rubric items are addressed. stop and check that you are fulfilling them along the way. GO ahead now analyze the documents, look at every file and read all lines of code and formulate the plan. 

Rubric: 
Category
Description
Maximum Points
Introduction (Part 1)
Introduces the first and last name of each group member and their specific part of the presentation.
5 points
Introduction (Part 2)
The group was able to meet the two introduction criteria.
10 points
Content
Presentation content was accurate, relevant, complete, and demonstrated clear understanding of cultural awareness concepts. The group met all eight content criteria.
45 points
Presentation
Presentation delivery was clear, organized, and engaging; visuals and explanations supported audience understanding. The group met the two criteria.
10 points
Presentation Participation
Each group member participated actively and demonstrated preparation, collaboration, and contribution. The group met the two participation criteria.
10 points
References
References were relevant, properly cited, and presented in the correct format; the group met the criteria.
10 points
Topic: Native American males who are middle aged as defined by eriksons stages of development. 
Project requirements:
 AdventHealth University
Department of Nursing
NURS 320: Adult Health II
Clinical Group Project: Cultural Influences on Nursing Care

A male Latino patient arrives at 2:30 p.m. for a 1 p.m. physician appointment. Given that he took several buses and lost several hours of work to reach the doctor’s office, the patient feels frustrated and shunned when told by the nursing staff that he is late and that they will have to try to “work him in.” After traveling this far, he has no choice but to sit, wait and hope to be seen by the physician.

A second-year nursing student is assigned general assessment of an elderly American Indian male patient. The student nurse feels puzzled as he attempts to move through the assessment. The student focuses on less sensitive parts of the body as the patient seems reluctant to respond. Unfortunately, the student nurse is getting very little data. The patient sits quietly after each question and is not willing to look the nursing student in the eye.

A nurse discusses a new medication with a female Chinese patient from Taiwan who presents to the clinic after episodes of recurrent headaches. She seems interested in what the student nurse is teaching; the patient smiles and nods her head frequently. The patient leaves the clinic with sample pills and a prescription in hand. Despite seeming to agree with the doctor’s and the nurse’s directions, she has no intention of taking the medicine or making a follow up appointment as recommended.

These case scenarios can and do occur in various healthcare settings. There is an abundance of evidence indicating that many healthcare providers treat their patients differently depending on the patient's race and ethnicity.  Uncomfortable and dangerous situations can be avoided when the healthcare provider is equipped with knowledge of patient’s cultural belief and values. Culture is now identified based on shared beliefs, shared values and understanding of the world rather than a particular nation state.  In addition to other social factors, race and language have significant influence on the quality of the nurse-patient relationship.  In order to start incorporating cultural awareness in your practice this clinical project will familiarize you with concepts of culturally competent nursing care.
Student Learning Outcomes:
·      Examine major concerns and issues encountered by nurses in providing culturally sensitive nursing care to patients and their families.
·      Examine and discuss if culturally competent care to patients and their families was observed or evident in the clinical settings visited in this course.
Presentation:
·      Groups of three to eight students will be assigned to prepare a group project and presentation. Each group will determine the culture group to present and must get approval from faculty.  Failure to get approval will result in the presentation not being graded. 
·      Students must present their findings in the form of a PowerPoint.  Should also have visual aids i.e.  food, clothing etc.  If not given as a live presentation will need to have speaker notes and voiced over information for each slide.
·      The group must give a 10-15-minute presentation during the designated time.
·      All group members are expected to interact and to participate in the presentation.
·      All group members will present in professional attire. A picture will be submitted of each member (full head to toe). 

Written Assignment
·      All bibliographic references on must be completed according to the American Psychological Association (APA) format described in the Publication manual of the American Psychological Association (7th ed.)  and references must be written within the last 5 years.  If unable to find current literature, please notify faculty for assistance. 
·      The PowerPoint presentation must be submitted to the drop box by one group member prior to presentation date and time or points will be deducted. When submitting please be sure to double check that audio is attached.  If using a google document will need to allow all course faculty access to download. 

Suggested cultural group:  Give specific age range, sex when choosing population.  Adults only. 
·      Elderly or other specific adult age group
·      American Indian (be specific)
·      African American
·      Latino/Hispanic (be specific)
·      Asian (be specific)
·      Pacific Islanders
·      Disabled (can be one specific group such as autistic or blind)
·      Specific Religions:  Muslim, Islamic, Hindu, Buddhism etc.
·      Specific Regions example: Appalachian/Rural
·      LGBTQIA2s+

Address the following criteria in relation to how that culture/ population may be predisposed or affected in your presentations:
·      Health Disparities/ Conditions/Disorders/Diseases
·      Common Complementary and Alternative Medicines / Practices
·      Health beliefs
·      Decision making/ Family Hierarchy
·      Specific Gender Issues
·      Influences from Religion and Spirituality
·      The Effects of Diet/Nutrition
·      Special Considerations

